Heart attack wasnt an issue of concern for the young and energetic till some time ago but times are changing and with reports of heart attack striking kids as young as 8 years, its time to spread awareness and prevent the risk factors.

A healthy lifestyle, which includes daily physical activity, healthy food, proper sleep and no tobacco consumption reduces a major risk of heart attack until you are 80 years old. But in order to remain disciplined in life till that age, one needs to develop healthy habits from the beginning and parents play an important role in this.

Dr. Priyanka Rohatgi, Nutritionist, Apollo Hospital says, The first 2000 days after a child is born are very important in developing his/her the nutritional habits. The child at this age has a rapid metabolism and is developing fast. Fat cells start forming at this age. So, if you are feeding your child more than what is required by his/her body, it will only lead to fat storage, which will lead to a fat child. And a fat child always becomes a fat adult. With the expansion of fat cells so early on, it gets difficult for such kids to lose weight later in their life. 

Also, taste for spicy, salty and sweet food is developed at an early age age. Thus, introducing your child to aerated beverages, juices, chips, jams, juices, ketchup and other such stuff makes him/her habitual to all this later.

Giving more natural foods at this age and understanding what the kid likes is important for the healthy development of a child.

Dr. Priyanka strictly says that once a child starts walking (after the age of one), he/she should not be fed by the parents. After one year of age, the child should be allowed to sit independently and eat by him/her self. This reduces the chance of the kid being a fussy/picky eater.

Of late we have noticed kids dont get enough sleep. They sleep late and get up early to go to school and thus compromise on their sleep. Lack of sleep is the major reason for obesity, lack of concentration and poor mental health in kids. Eight to 10 hours of sound sleep is very important for the healthy growth of children.

Eating fruits is a must as fruits are rich in antioxidants. Antioxidants prevent any kind of inflammation in the body, which can be the reason for many diseases. So, five to seven servings of fruits and vegetables in a day is a must. 

Give your kids what is grown on plants rather than what is manufactured in plants (factories). So, the next time your kid cries for a snack, hand them a fruit instead of a packet of chips or cookies. 

Mobile phones have become a magnet not only for kids but adults as well. The screen time should not be more than three hours for kids as well as adults. The harmful radiation from the phones and other gadgets can be fatal for the human body.

Children these days are mostly dehydrated. Whenever they feel thirsty they are interested in having aerated beverages or packaged fruits juices and not water. This makes them dehydrated. One to two litres of regular water should be consumed by kids on a daily basis.

One hour of physical activity every day goes a long way in the overall development of a child. 

There should be zero junk food included in a kids routine until the kid is five. Once in a fortnight they can have a chocolate or a packet of chips but not every day. Excess of sugar and salt both are bad for everyone and especially for kids when they are growing. 

Dr. Rohatgi says its simple. Kids imitate whatever parents do, so if you want them to eat healthy, you should eat healthy too. If parents follow a healthy lifestyle then kids will automatically follow them. If parents eat at home, sleep on time and get up early, kids will do the same.

Most importantly, parents need to learn to stay away from gadgets in order to make their kids follow the same. 

Not wasting food and eating smaller portion sizes is also a thing of prime importance. If you are getting a free upgrade from a small meal to a large meal in a restaurant, that doesnt mean you really need to have it. Portion control is a must. 

Overeating is a major reason for obesity, which can lead to early onset of diseases.

Recommended By Colombia

Children are small and thus dont understand nutrition, however, interestingly, what they can relate to are the colours. Telling them healthy eating in terms of colour can work wonders in improving their eating habits. Making them eat seven colours in a day is essential to achieve the rainbow of health.

Zero animal protein is also important.  Removing meat, dairy, eggs and fish from your plate is good for your health, better for the planet and best for the animals whose lives we take by the billions... Read MoreZero animal protein is also important.  Removing meat, dairy, eggs and fish from your plate is good for your health, better for the planet and best for the animals whose lives we take by the billions to satisfy our taste buds.Shoba NairThe HFFS (High fat salt sugar) foods should not be given to the kids at all. This includes all the packaged and junk food.

Aerated drinks are a big NO as sugar is addictive. Sugar works like cocaine in the body, so, cutting down on it is very important.

