Friends are the family we choose and it is difficult to imagine life without them. They are the ones who understand us when no one else can, and stand next to us through our thick and thin. We can trust them with our darkest secrets and be assured they wont judge us.

In fact, our life would not have been the same without our besties, right? Whats the better occasion to express your love for them than Friendship Day itself 
In case, you are looking for some interesting wishes, SMS, images and status to make your friends feel, here is some help.

 A good friend is a connection to life  a tie to the past, a road to the future, the key to sanity in a totally insane world. Happy Friendship Day

 Having a soulmate is not always about love. You can find your soulmate in a friendship too. Thanks for being there in my life. Happy Friendship Day

 There are certain people who make the world a better place just by being in it. Thanks for being one of those people A big hug and Happy Friendship Day 

 Hey, you Yes, you Thanks for being always there. Do I need to tell you today is Friendship Day and you need to wish me that?
 You know who is a friend?
The one who sees your first drop of tear,
Catches the second,
Stops the third,
and
Turns the 4 th into a smile

 God is so wise He didnt create friends with price tags because if he did, I couldnt have afforded you Happy Friendship Day

 Friendship is really the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love. - Jane Austen

 A real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out.- Walter Winchell

 I would rather walk with a friend in the dark, than alone in the night. - Helen Keller

 Friendship is the only cement that will hold the world together. - Woodrow Wilson

 If Friendship is your weakest point then you are the strongest person in the world. - Abraham Lincoln

 Old friends pass away, new friends appear. It is just like the days. An old day passes, a new day arrives. The important thing is to make it meaningful - a meaningful friend or a meaningful day. - Dalai Lama

 Anybody can sympathise with the sufferings of a friend, but it requires a very fine nature to sympathise with a friends success.- Oscar Wilde

Recommended By Colombia

(Images: Shutterstock)

