Incidence of infertility is on the rise in India. Interestingly, recent researches suggest there is a 20 to 30 per cent rise in the last 5 years in India. Furthermore, it cannot be seen as an urban phenomenon anymore.

A woman is most fertile in her 20 s. Having said that, you must know that her fertility changes throughout her life. Some women stay fertile even in their late 30 s, still there can be women who face fertility issues even at a younger stage. Many experts believe that a womans fertility starts to decline after the age of 35. But it must be noted that infertility is no longer a womans problem alone.

Researches have shown that infertility issues occur in men and women equally, with up to 20 per cent issues being a combination of men and women, both. Men face issues like low sperm count, affected motility of sperms and abnormalities in morphology.

Recommended By ColombiaThis is the reason that many people (and even experts) recommend planning timely pregnancy. Delaying parenthood can be a personal choice and may not have heavy consequences, unless of course you are not careful about your overall health. In later years, issues like cysts and fibroids and even hormonal imbalance can interfere with natural pregnancy, hence making it important for couples trying to conceive to visit their gynecologist if they dont succeed within a period of 6-8 months. 

It goes without saying that leading a healthy lifestyle is of prime importance for fertility. Various studies have established that a big chunk of infertility cases occur due to lifestyle diseases such as endometriosis, obesity, irregular menstruation and more, shares Dr Indira Ganeshan, director and chief gynecologist, Irene IVF Centre, Safdarjung Enclave, New Delhi. 

According to Dr Ragini Agrawal, Gynecologist and Clinical Director at W Pratiksha Hospital, Gurgaon, Judicious use of contraception is safe and quite successful but it is unsafe if women make wrong choices of contraceptive methods like repeated use of I-Pill or delays pregnancy after 35 or undergo repeated abortions. 

In short, you must get yourself regular tested if you plan to delay pregnancy. It is important to lead a healthy lifestyle - eat healthy, workout regularly, omit tobacco, use safe methods of contraception, and keep stress at bay. 

