Born on October 2, 1869, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi played a significant role in leading Indias freedom struggle against the British rule. M.K Gandhi was born in Porbandar, Gujarat to Putlibai and Karamchand Gandhi. He promoted ahimsa or non-violence and peace, and was against the archaic caste system and untouchability thus promoting equality for all. His lessons and ideologies of peace travelled far and wide in the world, making Gandhi a house-hold name during the period of Indias freedom struggle. So much so, that Indian Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore even gave him the title of Mahatma. 

Mahatma Gandhis unique teachings and practice of Ahimsa and Satyagrah won over hundreds and thousands of Indians, uniting and inspiring them for a non-violent freedom fight against the British Raj. He lead the famous Dandi March in 1930 and later in 1942 launched the Quit India Movement against the British Rule in India. Needless to say, Mahatma Gandhi played a crucial role in making India free from the Britishers and so he is also aptly known as the Father of the Nation. 

His achievements and teachings are still remembered years after his assassination on January 30, 1948. So much so that the United Nations General Assembly established Mahatma Gandhis birth date October 2 as the International Day of Non-Violence to remember and honour his Ahimsa philosophy. 

This year will be marking the 150 th birth-anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi which is also celebrated as Gandhi Jayanti. On this special day, lets remember the great freedom-fighter for all the valuable life lessons he taught us. You can share these images, messages, WhatsApp status and Facebook posts to mark this important historical day.

1. Anger is the enemy of non-violence and pride is a monster that swallows it up. - Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018
2. This Gandhi Jayanti, may truth and non-violence be with us.
3. On Mahatma Gandhis 150 th birth anniversary, lets remember and imbibe Mahatmas the teachings of Satya and Ahimsa.
4. Its October 2, birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Lets honor and pay our tribute to the great soul. Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018
5. Remembering the Mahatma Gandhi on the auspicious day of his 150 th birth anniversary today. Lets not forgive his sacrifices and his teachings. Wishing you a Happy Gandhi Jayanti.

1. The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong. Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018
2. Gandhi ji said, The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others. Happy Gandhi Jayanti to you all 
3. “Where there is love there is life  Mahatma Gandhi. Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018
4. “Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony  Mahatma Gandhi
5. Today is Mahatma Gandhis 150 th birth-anniversary. Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018 to everyone

1. Gandhi ji had said, God has no religion.” Let us all remember the great soul on his 150 th birth-anniversary today. Jai Hind
Recommended By Colombia 2. His Gandhi Jayanti, let us fulfil Gandhi jis words be the change we want to see in this world. Happy Gandhi Jayanti 2018.
3. “An eye for an eye will only make the whole world blind, Mahatma Gandhi had said. Let us spread love and unity this Gandhi Jayanti.
4. On Gandhi jis 150 th anniversary today, here are some wise words from the great soul, “The day the power of love overrules the love of power, the world will know peace.
5. Mahatma Gandhi had said, “Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will. May we all have the strength and courage to achieve are dreams.

(All images: Shutterstock.com )

