“Women constantly change their minds when it comes to appearance. You may not want to stick to just one look and do something different, thus just tweaking your hair a bit or wearing another shade of lipstick than you normally do on an everyday basis is enough to change the way you usually look,” says beauty expert Amyn Manji.
 
Here are a few ways you can perk up your look 

Shape your eyebrows: Eyebrows shape your eyes and face, thus if you have brows that helps highlight your features, theres nothing better than that. Says beauty expert Farheen Shaikh, “When you make your brows full and straight, they give you an innocent look, while defining an arch will make you look edgy.”
Recommended By Colombia
Do your hair differently: Instead of getting a haircut done or colouring your hair, you can always tweak your hairstyle a bit to make it look trendy and different. A middle part will lend a symmetrical look to your face, while a deeper side part will make you look mature. Changing your hairstyle is probably the easiest way to spruce up your look. Further you can also go in for a braid or a bun that are perfect options for a makeover.

Choose bold colours: With the party season on in full swing, theres no better way to change the way you look than flaunting bright and bold colours in your makeup. You can always opt for a bright red lipstick or do the smokey eye look. Further you can also add bright colours to your hair to make it look funky. Says Manji, “In case you do not wish to colour your hair completely, you can add extensions in bright colours such as purple or fuchsia.”

Try a new perfume: Choosing a different scent than what you normally wear will also amp your look. It is best to choose one according to the occasion you are wearing it for. For example, if you are going for a party in the evening, you can wear something that has a hint of musk. But if you are going for an occasion during the day, it is best to choose something light and fruity.

Illuminate your face: The best way to ensure that you look great and different is by dabbing an illuminating cream that will highlight your features before you apply a foundation. This will make your skin glow after youve applied your makeup.

