Our body needs calcium for healthy bones. Not only that, calcium is also very important for proper functioning of our nerves and muscles. Here are some 
 you should definitely include in your diet

1) MILK- 1 Cup: 280 mg of calcium

 When we think about calcium, the first source that comes to our mind is milk. Easily digestible and absorbable, milk is one of the best high calcium foods. An amazing vehicle for building bones from childhood to adulthood, a cup of milk includes 280 mg of calcium of the recommended 1000 mg.

2) ORANGE - 1 Orange: 60 mg of calcium

 We all know orange helps in boosting our immune system. And this magical fruit is also in the list of high calcium foods with vitamin D, which is crucial for absorption of calcium in the body. One medium size of orange contains 60 mg of calcium.

3) SARDINES - 1 Cup: 569 mg of calcium

 Listed in the foods rich in calcium, Sardines are a great option. If you are a non-vegetarian,it is just what you need. These little salty fishes can add an amazing umami flavour to pastas and salads.

4) SOY MILK - 1 Cup Milk: 60 mg of calcium

 Its a myth that only dairy products contain calcium. Non-dairy products like fortified soy milk can be amazing high calcium foods and provide both calcium and vitamin D.

5) ALMONDS - 1 Cup(roasted): 457 mg of calcium

 With a stupendous 457 mg of calcium, almonds top the list of high calcium foods. High on proteins as well, these nuts also helps in reducing the risk of heart disease. Also, almonds are an amazing source for improving your memory. Having some of these protein rich nuts every morning will be a sure win-win for your health.

6) BOK CHOY - 1 Cup: 74 mg of calcium

 Every non-dairy calcium source list is incomplete without this leafy vegetable called Bok Choy. Also called as Chinese Cabbage, a cup of shredded bok choy provides 74 mg of calcium and just 9 calories. Loaded with vitamins like A and C, it is easy to cook and is available all round the year.

7) FIGS - 1 Cup(dried): 242 mg of calcium

 Indulge in this sweet dessert-like fruit loaded with fibre and potassium. With a whopping 242 mg of calcium per 1 cup of dried fig, this sticky fruit helps in strengthening your bones. Also loaded with magnesium, this fruit helps in keeping the heart beat steady and maintaining muscle function. It stands a strong position in the list of foods rich in calcium.

Recommended By Colombia
8) YOGHURT - 1 Serving: 400 mg of calcium

 Available in various flavours, yoghurt is a dairy product which contains healthy bacteria for your gut. With 400 mg of calcium in a single serving , this protein-rich diet is an amazing substitute to milk.

9) CHEESE - 1 Cup(diced): 951 mg of calcium
nice share....DD Sharma

 Another addition to the list of foods rich in calcium, cheese is a great source of protein as well as calcium. A must have ingredient for a variety of snacks, consumption of cheese is as easy as a pie.

10) GREEN LEAFY VEGETABLE - 1 Bunch: 336 mg of calcium

 High in dietary fibre, green leafy vegetables are one of the high calcium foods. With a number of options like spinach, kale, celery and broccoli, these veggies are also rich in potassium and magnesium.

