Withania somnifera is a plant from the nightshade family native to the Indian subcontinent. Its more commonly known as 
, Indian ginseng, or winter cherry (not to be confused with Physalis alkekengi).

It is a fairly small shrub with small pale green flowers, simple leaves and red berries. It has a tuberous root, carrot or ginger shaped. It also has a distinct smell, described as horse-like, which is where it gets its name, ashwagandha; Ashwa is Sanskrit for horse and gandha for smell. As one of its qualities is that its strengthening, its also said to impart strength of the stallion. 

Its always been revered in Ayurveda and other traditional medicine practices. Its fast gaining popularity once again, as scientific studies are proving what the traditional medicine has always stated about the plants many medicinal properties.

Most of the benefits from ashwagandha are from the root and the leaves. The leaves are most commonly used in teas. The root can be taken in many ways but its most commonly dried, powdered and taken as a supplement these days.

Its used to treat arthritis, anxiety, insomnia, tumors, tuberculosis, asthma, leukoderma (a skin condition marked by white patchiness), bronchitis, backache, fibromyalgia, menstrual problems, hiccups, and chronic liver disease, stress, focus, stamina and strengthening.

Research has been done on the plant and found it to have many of these healing properties. It has been found to:

Adding ashwagandha was found to increase insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity and thus lower blood sugar levels in people with and without diabetes.

Many experiments have shown that ashwagandha is a potent medicine against cancer. Its been found to reduce the growth of new cancer cells and induce death in pre-existing cancer cells. Most of these findings have been on animal studies and it has yet to be tested on humans, but the data looks promising to treat several cancers. One experiment on mice found 70 to 80 per cent reduction in tumor growth and complete inhibition of metastasis to other organs compared to untreated controls. The study was conducted by NCBI, US National Library of Medicine. 

It has been found to significantly reduce the levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the bloodstream. Both animal and human studies have confirmed this, though the effect is far stronger in animals than it is in humans. Still it reduced levels of cholesterol by an average of 17 per cent and levels of triglycerides by an average of 11 per cent in a 60-day study of chronically stressed adults.

Our immunity is worn down by several factors daily and in this modern day and age its often intrinsic factors, like stress, inflammation and lack of sleep. By improving on all of those and boosting overall physical health and stamina, ashwagandha has improved our immunity significantly. It also was found to improve the activity of natural killer cells, the immune cells that fight infection.

Ashwaganha has been found to have an incredible effect on cortisol levels in the body in many studies. Cortisol is a stress hormone that causes all the wear and tear in the body if the body is chronically stressed, which it easily can be in modern times.
By reducing cortisol, its been found to be significantly helpful for those suffering from chronic stress, anxiety and even depression. One experiment found a reported 79 per cent decrease in depression in 60 days by those consuming 600 mg of ashwagandha

Stress affects fertility the mosst and men with high stress have low testosterone and a low sperm count. Whether it directly affects the reproductive system or if its powerful to bring down stress levels that causes the improvement is unknown but a strong co-relation has been found between ashwagndha and improvement in testosterone production and sperm health.
A study found that men who received ashwagandha for stress experienced higher antioxidant levels and better sperm quality. After 3 months of treatment, 14 per cent of the mens partners had become pregnant.

Recommended By ColombiaChronic inflammation is one of the most widespread causes behind diseases in our modern life. Caused by a number of things, one of its best cures is ashwagandha. Its been found to reduce a marker of inflammation called C-reactive protein by 36 per cent.

A study trying to determine safe amount of ashwagandha dose for people, found that previously healthy people had an increase in muscle and a reduction of fat. Another study testing its strengthening claims found the same.
for best korean cold pressed juicer call at 9717111345 Shivam Mahapatra

It has always been said to improve memory in Ayurveda and human experiments have found it to improve mental performance.
More interestingly, many animal studies and test tube studies have found it to reduce mental problems caused by injury and disease, the results look promising for treatment of humans in the future. 

