If you were wondering why the Dengue malaise hasnt taken over the headlines yet, straighten up Dengue is back. Dengue started late this year but may continue till mid December if preventive measures are not taken. So far the cases have been uncomplicated but it could turn into an epidemic within a month, warns Dr Sushila Kataria, director, Internal Medicine, Medanta. 

The delay this year happened because of the continuous rainfall but the dry spell seems to have given way to their breeding now. As a result, Delhi is seeing a sudden rise in the vector borne disease, which is expected to further rise around October and November. 

The good news is that the number of Dengue cases reported so far are less than numbers in 2017, however, rains could change the game drastically. Last year, there were 1,177 cases in the capital by this time. 

Dengue outbreak was deadliest in 2015, when it claimed 60 lives in Delhi. However, the reason that dengue cases are not increasing alarmingly is because the same serotype of the disease is circulating for the past three years, which may have led to the build up of immunity in population. Commenting on the outbreak, Dr Om Srivastava, director of infectious diseases, Jaslok hospital and research center said, It is difficult to say if it will be as bad or worse than last year. We can make a prediction only by end of September or early October.” The incidence of people who have had a relapse after the previous episode of dengue is more than last year. We need a dedicated study to find out the reason to why it is happening, he added. 

According to Dr Vijay Arora, director, Department of Internal Medicine, Max Hospital, Patparganj, Post rains, poor sanitation conditions make this a ripe season for water and vector-borne diseases. In such a scenario, the adage of prevention is the best cure holds true, very strongly. Dengue manifests through some very notable symptoms. However, sometimes, symptoms are mild and can be mistaken for those of the flu or another viral infection such as high fever, breathlessness, vomiting etc. In severe cases of Dengue fever, symptoms of massive bleeding and shock happens which is called Dengue Shock Syndrome (DSS) leading to circulatory failure and eventual mortality. Hence, time is the essence, the moment you notice any of these symptoms report immediately to your physician.” 

The first measure to control its wide outbreak is to keep your surroundings dry and clean, barring mosquitoes from breeding to avoid a dengue epidemic. 

Recommended By Colombia
Dr Kataria recommends lots of fluids like coconut water, chhach and light diet. Sufferers should avoid strong painkillers. Also, dont panic. 99 per cent patients recover with supportive care. Very few people require blood transfusion.

If gain Delhi public try to cast their franchise to AAP or even Congress only God alone save Delhi from Epidemics.GURURAJ.Gururaj NandyalDr Brunda, MBBS, MD consultant - Internal medicine, Aster CMI Hospital, Bangalore comments, “Compared to last two years, the number of dengue cases registered this year are less in India. In North India, cities such as Delhi and Ahmedabad are witnessing more number of dengue cases. In Karnataka this year, we have witnessed a rise in number of flu cases whereas the number of dengue cases have been minimal when compared to past two years. Till now there have been no registered cases of death caused by dengue at Aster CMI hospital, Bangalore. After being bitten by a mosquito carrying the virus, the incubation period ranges from 3 to 15 (usually 5 to 8) days before the signs and symptoms of dengue appear.” Rest and increased fluid intake for adequate hydration is important. 

Besides dengue, Delhi NCR is also reporting a huge spike in viral fevers after the rains, leading to more hospital visits. 

