Trusting on home remedies to cure common cold and cough is something that many Indian households still believe. Besides treating common cold and cough effectively, these home remedies are also free from any side-effects. Here we have mentioned some of these home remedies that will help you treat common cold and cough.

Ginger tea

Ginger tea not only tastes good but also helps in treating common cold and cough. The tea helps in drying running and dripping nose, thus expelling phlegm from the respiratory tract. Among various health benefits of ginger, it is known to soothe common cold and speeds up the recovery process.

Mixture of lemon, cinnamon and honey

Another effective home remedy for common cold and cough is a mixture of lemon, cinnamon and honey. This syrup effectively cures cold and cough. 

How to make the syrup: In half spoon of honey, add a few drop of lemon and a pinch of cinnamon. Have this syrup twice a day to cure common cold and cough.

Luke-warm water

Drink luke-warm water frequently as it helps in fighting against common cold, cough and sore throat. Warm water reduces inflammation in the throat and helps in replenishing the fluids and infection out of the body.

Milk and turmeric

An essential ingredient found in almost all Indian kitchens, turmeric has a strong antioxidant which helps in treating many health problems. Turmeric mixed in warm milk is a popular and effective way to fight against cold and cough. Drinking a glass of warm turmeric milk before sleeping helps in faster recovery from cold and cough. 

Gargle with salt-water

This is an age-old therapy that effectively treats cough and cold. Adding turmeric in this salt-water is also beneficial.

Honey and brandy

Brandy is known to keep your chest warm as it increases bodys temperature and missing honey in brandy helps in fighting a cough. Just a teaspoon of brandy mixed with few drops of honey improves cough and common cold.

Spiced tea

Add tulsi, ginger and black pepper while peparing your tea and this spiced tea is great for your health. These three ingredients play an important role in fighting a common cold and cough.

Honey, lime juice and warm water

This is a perfect dose to improve digestion and for the circulation system. Adding honey to luke-lime water is the best solution in controlling common cold and cough.

Amla

Being a strong immunomodulator, amla fights against many diseases. Eating one amla regularly provides many health benefits as it ensures the proper functioning of the liver and improves blood circulation.

Ginger-tulsi mixture

Extract the ginger juice and add crush tulsi leaves to it and add honey. Consume it to get relief from a cough.

Flaxseeds for cold and cough

Flaxseeds are another effective remedy to cure common cold and cough. You can boil flaxseeds until it thickens and strain it. Add a few drops of lime juice and honey to it and consume the mixture for cold and cough relief.

Ginger and salt

Cut ginger into small pieces and add salt to it. Chew these ginger pieces to fight cold, cough and a sore throat.

Saut garlic

Saut a few garlic cloves in ghee and consume this when warm. This can be a bitter concoction but has a great soothing impact for common cold and cough.
Recommended By Colombia

Jaggery solution

Boil water with black pepper, cumin and jaggery to it. Consume this solution when warm and it will give you relief from chest congestion.
Olivia Bobby is my name. This isnt a testimony but a show of appreciation to Dr White for giving me a second chance haven been careless a little. In 2013 few days to my engagement I tested pos... Read MoreOlivia Bobby is my name. This isnt a testimony but a show of appreciation to Dr White for giving me a second chance haven been careless a little. In 2013 few days to my engagement I tested positive to HIV III which almost made the clouds fall on me. For 4 years of my life, I subjected myself to taking ARV drugs, visiting temples and pastors without solution but a night on a health blog changed my life after I read about how an African healer/herbalist called WHITE cured patients with herpes Virus and cancer. Dr White whom I contacted Via email: drwhitethehivhealer AT gmail.com and Watsapp:  2349-0918-44595 and paid the amount required to prepare the cure promised to cleanse my body white using herbs and he did by preparing the CURE and sent through courier service to my home address with clear instructions on usage. To cut the long story short in just 21 days of using his heavenly blessed herbal medicines I went to the laboratory and behold I tested negative to HIV/AIDS. Be informed, no disease without cure perhaps youve not taken the right medicines. I have waited to test severally before writing this and now its 100% certain I am cured and its my pledge and duty to tell the world.Olivia Bobby

Carrot juice

This uncommon home remedy is great to fight common cold and cough. It may sound strange but this interesting drink helps in relieving common cold and cough

