With high air pollution levels and harmful toxins attacking our hair, taking care of it has become mandatory. But infusing the hair with a million hair products is not the answer. On the contrary, itll end up doing a lot more damage than good. So to help you make sure you take proper care of your hair, here are five simple (yet effective) tips you should always follow.

When it comes to taking good care of your hair, hair serums end up being a godsend. Providing your hair with the nourishment it needs, investing in a premium hair serum should be the first  and perhaps most obvious  hair care tip to follow. 

Excess of anything can be bad  even water. So if you happen to be someone who washes his hair two to three times a day, you need to immediately stop doing that. Contrary to what many of you might believe, washing your hair just once a day is more than enough to make sure that its well taken care of. 

Oiling your hair has a lot of benefits, many of which are often severely underrated. So dont hesitate to oil your hair every once in a while to aid in its nourishment and overall health. But be careful, as putting too much oil on your hair can be damaging as well. Pro tip: If youve been planning on growing out your hair a bit and have been struggling with the same, you can try oils that are prescribed to promote hair growth.

Recommended By Colombia

Do you suffer from hair fall? Has dandruff decided to make your hair its natural habitat? What about your hair length  is it short or long? Do you have straight hair or curly hair? Is your hair coloured? Depending on these factors, certain shampoos will be better suited (and naturally more effective) than others. So when you are looking for a shampoo for your hair  a product youll be using on an almost daily basis  you need to make sure its one that is best suited for your hair. 

If you have long hair, then investing in a hair dryer pretty much becomes mandatory. After all, hair dryers end up being your friends as they ensure that your long and wavy hair doesnt stay damp and/or tangled.

 Aayaan Upadhyaya, MensXP.com

(All Images: ThinkStock)

