Men are not born great, their thoughts make them great. It is the purity and simplicity of thoughts and actions that separate these great men from the rest of the tribe. They do the same things but with a motive to bring a difference to the society as a whole. Mahatma Gandhi, fondly called as Bapu, was a simple man with thoughts to bring a considerable change in the lives of his countrymen because he did not live in isolation. He fought for the freedom we enjoy today. But the great evolution is also leading us to lead isolated lives - within our families, within our computer systems, within our smartphones. We need to give a breather to our self obsessions and think about the world we live in. 

Gandhiji followed what he preached and lived a life of idealism. Here are few inspiring quotes by Mahatma Gandhi that act like an eye opener. 

“A man is but a product of his thoughts. What he thinks he becomes.”

“The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is an attribute of the strong.”

“Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.”

“An ounce of patience is worth more than a tonne of preaching.”

“Glory lies in the attempt to reach ones goal and not in reaching it.”

“Whatever you do will be insignificant. But it is very important that you do it.”

“The difference between what we do and what we are capable of doing would suffice to solve most of the worlds problem.”

“The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.”

“A coward is incapable of exhibiting love; it is the prerogative of the brave.”

“It is health that is real wealth and not pieces of gold and silver.”

“There is more to life than simply increasing its speed.”

“I will not let anyone walk through my mind with their dirty feet.”

Nobody can hurt me without my permission.

Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.

In a gentle way, you can shake the world.

Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.

Service which is rendered without joy helps neither the servant nor the served.

If you want real peace in the world, start with children.

Whenever you are confronted with an opponent, conquer him with love.

An eye for an eye will make the whole world blind.
Recommended By Colombia
The future depends on what you do today.

Talking about Gandhi without studying his work is useless. Over hyping is done in India to cover the mistakes done by many. Gandhis policy of bringing Nehru and not supporting Hindus brought him down... Read MoreTalking about Gandhi without studying his work is useless. Over hyping is done in India to cover the mistakes done by many. Gandhis policy of bringing Nehru and not supporting Hindus brought him down. In our school of thought we are not allowed to see his plus and minus.Srikumar Ramanujam

Gandhi Jayanti: How the Mahatma became vegetarian for life 01:45

