Dark circles can affect both men and women. Now there are many reasons for dark circles to appear under your eyes; from stress , lack of sleep, hormonal changes, a disturbed lifestyle, hereditary and many more. But if not treated on time, they will not only dull your overall appearance, it can also lead to serious health issues. Though chemical based products helps in getting rid of them, but then there are many who have an extremely sensitive skin and only pure home remedies can help them. We list down some easy and doable home remedies to make your  easy. Tomatoes are an excellent solution for getting rid of dark circle, as it naturally helps to decrease the dark circles and also makes the skin soft and supple. All you need to do is mix one teaspoon of tomato juice with a teaspoon of lemon juice and apply it under your eyes. Let it remain for about 10 minutes and then, wash it off with water. Repeat this remedy at least twice a day. On a daily basis you can also drink tomato juice mixed with some lemon juice and mint leaves in order to get rid of dark circles.Acing the list of how to remove dark circles in a week is potatoes. Grate some raw potato and extract the juice of the same. Now take a cotton ball and soak it in the potato juice. Close your eyes and place these cotton balls on your eyes. Make sure they cover the entire area of the dark circles under your eyes as well as the eyelids. Leave it on for 10 minutes and wash off with cold waterAnother simple technique to get rid of the dark circles is using cold tea bags. Soak a tea bag preferably a chamomile or green tea bags in water. Chill it by placing it in the refrigerator for a while. Now, place them over your eyes. Use this remedy on a regular basis to see considerable difference.Almonds are loaded with vitamin E and its oil is as an emollient which helps in making the skin supple. With no tantrums, this how to get rid of dark circles in a week  routine is easy to do. Just apply little almond oil on your dark circles and massage gently. Just leave it overnight and wash it next morning.Regular use of cold milk will also decrease the dark circles and also soothes your eyes and skin. Take a cotton ball and place it in a bowl of cold milk or iced water for a while. Now apply the cotton ball making sure that it covers the entire eye with the affected area. Keep it for a while. Wash it regular water.Recommended By ColombiaAnother effective home remedy for the list of how to remove dark circles fast is orange juice. Mix some orange juice with a few drops of glycerin and apply this mixture over the dark circles. Not only will it diminish the dark circles it will also give a natural glow to your eyes.Bought DermalMD Under Eye Treatment Serum for my son who lives and works on East Coast. He works long hours rarely seeing the light of day. After the first application he could see an improvement. It... Read MoreBought DermalMD Under Eye Treatment Serum for my son who lives and works on East Coast. He works long hours rarely seeing the light of day. After the first application he could see an improvement. Its been a month now and the dark circles under his eyes are almost gone. The product arrived in two days, packaging was great and product has no strong or offensive fragrance. If youve been looking for eye serum, you know they are expensive. This one is modest in cost and does what it says. Would highly recommendBethan GrantOne of the main reasons thats seen for the recurrence of dark circles under eyes is because of stress, depression and a hectic lifestyle. No amount of home remedies will work if your mind isnt cool and calm. Yoga and meditation if practiced regularly will not only decrease your dark circles will also balance the body clock whilst calming your mind, body and soul.Everybody has seen the experts put those slice of cucumbers on the eyes while giving any beauty treatment, but how many of us have actually done it? Very few. So if you wondering how to get rid of dark circles fast, put sliced cucumber in refrigerator for 30 minutes. Take them out and place on your dark circles. Leave for 10 minutes prior to washing with cold water. Youll feel that your eyes have freshened up instantly.