Mehndi is a form of body art traced back to Ancient India, though many facts indicate Egypt and other regions of the world. Its also said that even Cleopatra used henna to adorn her body. This type of body part uses decorative designs on the persons body parts like hands, feet and even shoulders. The designs are created by using a paste, made from powdered dry leaves from the henna plant. Its still one of the most popular and natural form of body art among women. 

Mehndi is also a tradition for weddings and many festivals in India like Karva Chauth, Diwali, Teej and Eid. The decorative design is usually drawn on the palm and back of the hand. The colour of the mehndi depends on the henna paste; it varies from cheery red to dark brown. Indian henna art features fine lines of designs like flowers, petals, leaves and heavy intricate work. 

In the last few years mehndi has gained a lot of popularity worldwide. It is also known by the name of Henna tattoos. From heavy designs to geometric versions, many new designs have rounded up on the internet. Unlike permanent tattoos, henna is temporary, easy to get and pain free. This natural form of body art is also known for the cooling effect it leaves on the palms. Many like the feel of mehndi on their palms and enjoy getting it drawn. Though traditional designs are only used for weddings, festivals in India, many opt for mehndi designs which are simple designs. From half moons to basic lines, people even create their own mehndi art, which are easy to make. If youre looking for some mehndi inspiration, dont miss these latest mehndi designs. Scroll down and check out some of the latest mehndi designs of 2017: 

If you love to experiment and want to stand out, try the white mehndi art. Unlike the natural henna which leaves the colour on the skin, the white henna can be easily washed off. From adhesive to body paints, there are different forms of paste used for white henna. Artists seal this art with glitter and gilding powder. These pastes can stay on the skin for 3 to 10 days.

The shading technique in mehndi art is eye-catching and different from the regular ones. The double shade tone has been very popular among girls. It is done by using dark and light colours of henna for the shading technique.

The net design mehndi replicates the interfaced structure of mesh fabric. This delicate type of design takes a lot of patience to be drawn. From full mesh design to part of it, its one the most beautiful mehndi design.

This has been one of the most prominent designs of mehndi. From small flowers to big patterns, floral design remains one of the key mehndi designs for women. From shaded versions to big flowers, floral mehndi is one of the major pick for traditional occasions like weddings and festivals.

If youre not a fan of heavy design or intricate designs, you should opt for the simple tiki style versions. This design is very popular in India, Pakistan and regions of Middle East. From round circular designs in the middle, to diagonal patterns, they are many variations in this. And if youre looking for a quick job, then this design wont take much of your time.

Another quicker design for mehndi is the floral diagonal design on the back of the hand. This is usually done with simple designs on the palm. From big flowers to petals, this design starts with the index finger and may continue till the palm.

The glitter version of mehndi is mostly worn on wedding functions. From sequins to glitter, the mehndi gets an extra charm with sparkly adornments.

They come in different colours, where women often match the colour of the mehndi with their outfits. This is the easiest and most hassle free mehndi art. From different colours to pattern, these stickers can be used on different occasions and festivals in India.

Recommended By Colombia

The design uses the diagonal pattern near the end of the palm. This design stands out because of the pattern and space between the designs. This is also one of the easy-to-make designs which dont involve a lot of time.

Save lives to change your life today with our financial reward.Saving Lives Is More Important Than Abstract Moral Concerns: Financial Incentives Should Be Used to Increase Organ Donation to save... Read MoreSave lives to change your life today with our financial reward.Saving Lives Is More Important Than Abstract Moral Concerns: Financial Incentives Should Be Used to Increase Organ Donation to save many lives, Consider Our financial reward that can change you and your family lives forever ( $470,000. 00 USD ) For One organ donor that can save 8 lives Today.N.H.C.Dpt-Donation Contact us for more details Mobile Phone:  917795074566 WhatsApp:  917795074566 RegardsHcc Saving

Mehndi is one the main tradition for Hindu weddings. Brides usually go for intricate and heavy designs for the wedding. And now the latest trend involves getting a portrait of their husband or even the couple drawn on the palms. This design is not a free-hand drawing, the sketch is made 3-4 days before and artists use a decal to recreate the portraits, which looks pretty much like a painting. Its one of the most different and beautiful mehndi for brides.

