Many people want to have an organic garden at their home, but most of them do not understand what organic gardening is all about or how to make an organic garden. It is basically growing plants, vegetables and fruits without using any synthetic products like fertilizers and pesticides.

Before starting, it is good to plan. Decide on which vegetable, fruit or herb will grow best in your location basis the climate. Once you decide, buy the seeds from a local source who sells organic seeds. It is ideal to start with a small and a manageable garden initially. Before putting your plans into execution, you need to focus on the fundamentals of organic gardening - soil management, for which organic fertilizers are used and weed management, which it is dealt with organic ground covering and manual labour and pest control.

Once you are ready, follow the steps to organic gardening:

1. In organic gardening, preparing the soil is very important. Enhance the soil with organic matters. Make sure your plants get plenty of fresh nutrition from the soil. Proper conditioning is required. As mentioned earlier, do not use any chemicals in the soil as it will destroy the useful microorganism and bacteria present in the soil.

2. Use good compost which is made or obtained locally like kitchen waste, fallen leaves. You can also buy compost from an organic garden supply centres.

3. Once your soil and compost is ready, prepare your garden. After all these, carefully choose a plant that will thrive in your garden basis the soil quality, moisture, light and drainage.

4. The planting of the seeds should be in such a way that it help in reducing water wastage and reducing the growth of weed. Give adequate space so that when the plants grow there is enough air circulation to avoid fungal attack.

5. It is recommended to water the plants immediately after planting them, this will give them much needed water to grow.

6. Once the plants start growing, ensure that no weed is growing to take away the nutrition from the soil. Manually pull out all the weeds for a healthy growth of your organic plant.

Recommended By Colombia 7. In organic gardening, you have to keep chemical fertilizers and pesticides at bay. At the same time ensure your plants get enough nutrition, light and moisture. Pest control is done by keeping pests below the damage level by promoting beneficial insects and predators like birds, lizards and toads.

Is there anything new mentioned here?  Too general and non helpful guide. How do you make organic pest control liquid? How do often do you water them?Milan Vaghasiya 8. Try to use natural manure from animals, especially those who do not eat meat.

