March is an important month for all womenthe eight day of this month is celebrated as 
. Every year, the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women are celebrated worldwide on this day. 
Celebrated since the early 1900 s, International Womens Day also heralds gender equality. However, it is not the result of the efforts put by one individual or a government that made this wonderful day a reality. It is a collective effort of peoplemen and women alikeworldwide that we can observe this beautiful day. 

It also the perfect occasion to wish the special woman in anyones lifebe it their wife or girlfriend, mother or sister, teacher or friend. So, how could we express our love, affection and regards without the help of messages or wishes? To help you select the most beautiful and warm wishes for someone, we bring to you the perfect words that will bring a smile to her lips.

I know God exists. Because you exist. Happy Womens Day

You are the creator, the destroyer of evil, you are the saint and you are the guide. Life without you would have been impossible. This is the day to celebrate Gods best and most beautiful creation. Happy Womens day.

When days are short and nights are long, when food is sparse and air is poisoned, you are the hope that keeps me alive. I grew up in your arms as a child. As I grew, I found a partner in you. You gave me a shoulder to cry on when I needed a friend. You gave me life, you are my life. Happy Womens Day.

Life would not have been possible with you. I am what I am because of you. Happy Womens Day

You are my strength, my passion and my reason to stay alive. You are there as a friend, philosopher and guide. Without you, I would have never existed. 


Behind every successful man, there is a woman. She is always there when he needs her. She becomes his pillar of strength, his umbrella when it rains trouble, she is the provider, the creator. Woman, you are at the leader. Cheers to the strength of womanhood, the destroyer of evil and the creator. 
. 

Who is fragile like a bud yet strong like an iron rod?
Who is beauty and yet destroys all beasts?
Who weakness is her strength?
And strength, her weakness?

Her eyes can speak volume and her words can silence a room.
She is the caregiver and the punisher.
She is stronger than your strongest breath.
She is a believer and a rouge.
She is the saint and the sinner.

Because you are women, people will force their thinking on you, their boundaries on you. They will tell you how to dress, how to behave, who you can meet and where you can go. Dont live in the shadows of peoples judgement. Make your own choices in the light of your own wisdom. Amitabh BachchanAmitabh Bachchan

No nation can rise to the height of glory unless your women are side by side with you.Muhammad Ali Jinnah

Recommended By Colombia
Any time women come together with a collective intention, its a powerful thing. Whether its sitting down making a quilt, in a kitchen preparing a meal, in a club reading the same book, or around the table playing cards, or planning a birthday party, when women come together with a collective intention, magic happens.Phylicia Rashad

I think women are foolish to pretend they are equal to men; they are far superior and always have been.William Golding

The ratio of men to women has become distorted due to abortion of the girl child especially. This may lead to an increase in sex crimes such as rape.  Abortion is murder. Life enters into the woman... Read MoreThe ratio of men to women has become distorted due to abortion of the girl child especially. This may lead to an increase in sex crimes such as rape.  Abortion is murder. Life enters into the womans egg via the sperm at the time of copulation. As soon as the egg is fertilized by the sperm the living person is there in the egg. The egg then gradually develops with time. Any abortion of the fertilized egg is murder. Those who commit abortion are guilty of murder and strict laws should be enacted and enforced against abortionists. Those who commit abortion will roast in the fire of hell in which they will not believe till they experience it.Vimal Sehgal
There are two powers in the world; one is the sword and the other is the pen. There is a great competition and rivalry between the two. There is a third power stronger than both, that of the women.Muhammad Ali Jinnah

