Now that youve planned and made up your mind to 
get pregnant
, you wish it happens as soon as possible However, dont get impatient if it takes time. There are a couple of things you should do and some things that you should avoid to increase your chances.

 In some cases, as when nature needs a boost, a little push from you and your partner can go a long way in getting pregnant. When it comes to the best position to get pregnant, the general rule is that the male sperm must be deposited as near to the female cervix as possible.

 This has something to do with the life spans of the female egg and the male sperm. Once an egg is released from the ovary  a stage also known as ovulation  it begins its path down the fallopian tube to the uterus. A released egg typically survives for only 24 hours, while a sperm can last anywhere from three to five days in the female body. As such, the egg has to be as close to the egg as possible so they can meet and join before the egg dies.

 While not a lot of people will agree that the sexual positions have anything to do with getting pregnant, the logical inference is that it makes sense to assume the position that can help the sperm meet the egg in the shortest possible time.

 This is especially true when for couples who have problems or difficulty conceiving. Having said this, the first best position to get pregnant tip is to avoid positions that least expose the cervix to the male sperm, and that generally defy gravity such as sex while standing up, sitting down, or with the woman on top. When trying to conceive, it is best to limit the amount of sperm that flows back out of the vagina.

 The womans hips should also be positioned in such a way that the sperm released is kept inside, giving it enough time to swim up to the female cervix.

 Consider the following positions instead:

 1. 
 Or man-on-top is said to be the position thats best for getting pregnant. This is because this particular position allows for the deepest possible penetration, making it possible for the sperm to get deposited closest to the cervix.

 2. 
 Elevating the hips, which can be done by placing a pillow behind her, can also be helpful because this exposes the female cervix to as much semen as the male can release.

 3. 
 The rear-entry position where the man enters the woman from behind is also a recommended position. In this position, sperm is also deposited closest to the cervix, thereby helping increase the chances of conception.

 4. 
 You can also try having intercourse while lying side by side. This position likewise causes the most exposure of the cervix to the male sperm.

5. 
 Finally, while this has nothing to do with sexual positions, there are also researches that suggest the importance of the female orgasm in conceiving. According to studies, female orgasm leads to contractions that could push sperm up into the cervix. The lesson: have fun while trying to conceive. 

6. 
 Men have forgotten the art of foreplay and guess thats the reason why women dont enjoy sex as much as they used to. But, spooning before sex can solve the problem by increasing your chances of getting pregnant faster because spooning encourages better arousal in men and their chances of producing quality sperm increase. A cuddling position of sorts, spooning comprises one partner lying on one side with knees bent while the other partner lies with his or her front pressed against their back. 

7. 
 At times defying gravity can work wonders, and when it comes to making a baby, the woman on top position is the best as it guarantees maximum penetration. Woman on top, also called the cowgirl or riding position, is a sex position in which the man lies on his back or sits back and the woman straddles him facing either forward or back, and the man inserts his erect penis into the womans vagina.

8. 
 Though its not a sex position, its best to lie down on your back after a rocking sex session to maximise your chances of conceiving as lying down helps in pushing the sperm to the cervix. 

9. 
 Peg style is another sure shot position to make you pregnant. All you need to do is make your man lie flat on the bed and lie flat on him. What will follow is not something we need to tell you, right ladies? 

10. 
 No matter what sex position you opt for, trying to conceive wont fetch you any results if you are stressed out. Try deep breathing exercises, yoga and meditation to go stress free and have a happy and quick conception

How to become more fertile

Living in a chaotic situation is one of the biggest reasons of infertility. It leads to stress, which in turn, causes many diseases, even inability to conceive.

Intercourse close to ovulation increases the chances to conceive. But if experts are to be believed, making a few lifestyle changes can help you in boosting your fertility. These ways include:

Managing the right weight

Whether it is about being underweight or overweight, both the situations delay a womans fertility process. Hence, it is important to maintain an ideal body weight that can further boost your fertility process. Eating healthy and at the right time can greatly contribute to your body weight.

Tips for healthy sperms

According to the experts, men should protect their genitals from sources of heat. This may include frequent hot shower baths, keeping laptops on thighs and any direct exposure to heat. It is also recommended that instead of wearing briefs, men should wear boxers as it provides breathing space to their private area.

The beverages

Consuming excess alcohol or even coffee can damage a womans fertility. Health experts opine that drinking more than 5 cups of coffee a day can lower your chances of fertility. Also, intake of excess alcohol can compromise your fertility. Moderation is the right key to stay fit and healthy.

Smoking is injurious to your sperm health

Cigarette smoking whether done by women or men, can lower your chances of fertility. In women, smoking can affect the production of eggs and in men, it can reduce the production of sperms. And what worse is that smoking during pregnancy can increase the chances of miscarriage.

THIS IS THE RIGHT TIME TO HAVE SEX

Commonly referred to as fertile window, is the time when you should have sex. This is the best time to conceive as it increases the chances of fertility. You should keep a track of your ovulation cycle as intercourse during this period have fairly high chances of getting pregnant. Ideally, ovulation is the period 14 days before the due date of your menstrual cycle. If you have sex two days before or on the day you ovulate, the chances of getting pregnant increase.

What is Ovulation?

When egg is released from the ovaries, it is fertilised by a sperm and gets implanted in the uterus. This is the process that makes a woman pregnant.

How can I know that I am ovulating?

As mentioned, your ovulation period is 14 days before your menstrual cycle. You can also use the 
Ovulation calculator to know
 the right time of your ovulation. Ovulation calculator is helpful when your menstrual cycle has the same number of days every month. Tracking the ovulation symptoms that include cervical mucus, basal body temperature (BBT) is also helpful to know your ovulation period.

Cervical mucus is the vaginal discharge. You may experience increase in vaginal discharge three to four days before the ovulation period. It can remain during and immediately after ovulation and the texture is clear and stretchy.

BBT is your lowest body temperature in a 24-hour cycle. To know the ovulation period, you have to record your bodys temperature every morning. The day after you ovulate, there will be a slight increase in your bodys temperature which will be somewhere around 0. 5 to 1. 0 degree Fahrenheit. This increase in your bodys temperature will last until your next menstrual cycle.

Studies also say that around the ovulation period, many women experience mild cramps around their abdominal area and sometimes even backache.

What happens when you have sex right after your period?

There prevails a misconception that there are lower chances of getting pregnant when you have sex right after your period. Indeed, the chances are low but sperms can live in the body for at least seven days. This means that if naturally your menstrual cycle is short, you may get pregnant soon after your periods end.

What happens when you have sex during periods?

 This messy business is pleasurable for some and a few avoid having sex during periods. The natural lubrication makes intercourse more exciting. It should be noted that even during periods, there are chances of getting certain infection such as HIV and STDs. Thus, it is important to have a safe sex even during the menstruation cycle.

When it comes to conceiving, the chances are fairly low. But again, if you have intercourse towards the end of your period cycle, you may ovulate.

Foods that help in increasing your fertility

There are certain foods that increase the chances of your fertility. There fertility foods include:

Almonds: Almonds contain vitamin E and this antioxidant protect DNA in eggs as well as in sperms. Almonds also help in producing more sperms. 

Bananas: Loaded with vitamin B 6, eating banana as a mid-morning snack helps in regulating hormones and in the developments of eggs and sperms. 

Tomatoes: Packed with lycopene, tomatoes boost the sperm health.
 

Garlic: You may not like it eating raw, adding it in your vegetables is a great way to consume garlic. As it contains allicin, it boosts the blood circulation in sexual organs and protects the sperm health.
 

Citrus fruits: Adding citrus foods in your diet is another way to increase your fertility rate. These vitamin C enriched fruits improves the sperm and egg quality.
 

Eggs: Eggs are rich in vitamin D, which in turn, enhances conception ability in women.
 

Sunflower seeds: These super-seeds are packed with zinc and this is the most important nutrient that enhances fertility in men and women.
 

Carrots: Carrots are the ideal vegetable that enhances the chances of your conception. Adding carrots in your diet help in improves the performance of your sperms.
 

Dark chocolate: Another reason to eat a square of your favourite dark chocolate. As it contains amino acid, it doubles your sperm count. The antioxidant content in dark chocolate fight against free radicals which help in protecting against free radicals and improves male fertility.

Avoid these foods if you want to increase the chances of conception

So, if you are trying to conceive, steer clear of excess alcohol, foods that contain high glycemic-index such as sugar and rice, low fat dairy products as they may produce androgens which can interrupt your menstrual cycle and may affect your fertility. You should also avoid intake of trans. Here we have mentioned a list of foods that you should avoid in order to increase the chances of your contraception:

Fish (with high mercury content): Consuming high-mercury fish can damage the fetus. You should avoid having bigeye tuna, swordfish etc. And before consuming any seafood, do not forget to check the mercury content. 

Trans fat: Foods such as chips, microwaved popcorns, fried foods should be avoided. They cause inflammation and insulin resistance, which in turn, impact the fertility. 

Foods with high-glycemic index: Another set of foods that should be avoided to increase contraception chances are high-glycemic foods. These foods increase your blood-sugar level, which can cause inflammation and may hinder the ovulation process.
Recommended By Colombia

Soda: A few studies claim that even diet and regular soda beverages hamper fertility. As this increases blood-sugar level, again they can cause inflammation and may change metabolism. 

Alcohol: Consuming alcohol in excess should definitely be avoided. It not only impedes your fertility but also has hazardous effects on your health. 

Raw animal products: If you are trying to conceive, you must say no to raw animal products. Raw meat, eggs and seafood have salmonella and coliform bacteria that may impact fetus. Have cooked animal meat and that too after consulting your gynaecologist.

(Images: Shutterstock, Thinkstock)

