A crass comment by your very own loved one can hit ten times harder than that by an enemy. When Anshul Jangra was pointed out for her looks from a friend because she was chubbier than them, it sting her and she decided to lose weight and alter the way she looked. She started at 67 kilos and in about just half a year, she lost 20 kilos, just by walking everyday and avoiding a few things in her diet. Heres her story from fat to fit.

 Anshul Jangra

Project Consultant

: 26

67 kgs. I am 55

20 kgs

 6-7 months

 An incident happened one week before I started my diet plan. I met some of my friends after years and we were clicking pictures. One of them said, Anshul, you are supposed to look at least 1 per cent like us. I was so out of shape that my belly and face were almost of same size. That day I felt extremely bad and decided to lose weight. 

To be honest, it was revenge factor that drove me, not for anyone but for myself, that how could I not look like them in a picture.

Thats all. Thats where I started.

 Any type of paratha

 Indian cuisine: 2 roti, sabzi, buttermilk and green salad

 2 roti with sabzi/dal 

 French fries, burger

Just walking 

 I simply followed a healthy diet and not any fad diet. I did not go to gym nor did I go through a high intensity exercise practice. I had simply controlled my diet by excluding following items.
1. Rice
2. Cornflour
3. Any beverage
4. Bread 
5. Potato 

Now when I am at 47 kgs, I keep myself busy in physical work. Be it office or house, I keep doing little and everyday physical tasks to stay fit

By avoiding the 5 excluded items thrice in a week.

I could not wear my favorite clothes. I used to feel like an odd one out and anyone and everyone used to point out my belly. I had to get my clothes fitting altered and that was painful for myself.

Maybe, I will put on 3 kilos, but that will be good weight, that is muscle weight. I will be as fit as I am right now, if not more.

Recommended By Colombia

Except for those mentioned above, nothing else.

Sometimes, avoiding a few things can turn out to be the best decision to get fit and better.

