Festivals are around the corner and there could be no time better than this to start that much thought about diet plan. And it is actually possible within a week. Wondering how to lose weight in 7 days? Give this diet plan a try and see the difference on your own. After all, being a women you want to fit in that lehenga of yours and show off that much dreamt of flat belly.
 So pull up your socks for getting that flat stomach really fast, by following these simple food rules:

1) Chuck that C.R.A.P. out of your body
 Wondering what C.R.A.P. is? Well, it is a group of food that does no good to your body. C for caffeine, R for refined sugar, A for alcohol and P for processed food. If you remove these four food groups from your life, you can live your dream of a flat belly. One of the biggest enemies of a flat stomach, these groups cling to your bodies and make it difficult for you to lose fat. 

2) Treat yourself
 You are already doing good by resisting unnecessary food cravings but a mere treating wont do any harm. Enjoy a cheat meal once a week, be it creamy pasta, chocolate fudge or anything delightful, it will actually help you speed up your metabolism.

3) Go for fish-oil supplements
 Found in sardines and salmons, fish oil is a bliss food. Loaded with omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential for everyone, it should definitely be included in your diet. If not consumed directly, there are a lot of fish oil supplements available in the market too. These supplements help in burning fat, thus, leading to a flat belly. 

4) Never skip breakfast 
 We all know the importance of a healthy breakfast and there is a reason it is called one of the most important meals of the day. Breakfast should be consumed within an hour of waking up and should be containing all the essential nutrients our body requires.

5) Avoid eating after 8 pm
 “Eat breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince, and dinner like a pauper”. Dinner is something, which should be as light as possible because it is that time of the day when your digestive system is preparing to shut down. So avoid eating after 8 pm so as to give your body enough time to digest.

8 Food Swaps that will flatten your belly in a week

Mere swapping some food items with their healthy versions can actually change your life. It can help you in getting a flat belly with less effort. Try the following pointers and notice the difference on your own. 

1) Say bye-bye to fizzy drinks
When we talk about fizzy drinks, the only thing it brings along with it besides taste is gas. These carbonated drinks actually fatten your belly. To prevent yourself from those unnecessary fats, swap them with flat drinks like green teas and juices.

2) Ditch raw vegetables
Vegetables are extremely healthy and must be included in your diet. But your body struggles to break it down when it is eaten raw. So its better to have steamed veggies instead of eating them raw. Itll cut the extra efforts your stomach and gastrointestinal tract have to undergo in order to break those vegetables down.

3) Cut the salt

Water retention induces a puffed belly. And as salt is something which is attracted to water, it contributes in gaining extra fat. To avoid this unnecessary fat, switch to salt-free seasonings like cayenne pepper and notice the difference on your own.
4) Probiotic yogurt
Bacteria present in the gut have a very crucial role in the digestion of food. Its imbalance can actually disrupt the digestion system leading to a puffed belly. Indulge in probiotics like Greek yogurt in order to meet those sugar cravings without gaining extra pounds. It helps in improving intestinal mobility and thus eases digestion.

5) Drink more fluids

Fluids are essential for a healthy body. Especially when it comes to bloating, hydrating really helps. And what better fluid can there be than water? Drink at least 8 glasses of water to get a healthy bloat-free body to substitute those sugary drinks.
6) Avoid the gum
Some people have a strange habit of chewing something or the other all day long. For meeting this craving of chewing, they often end up eating gums, which do no benefit to the body at all. An amazing swap is to try munching on dry fruits like almonds, which will actually be beneficial to your body and provide it with those necessary nutrients at the same time.

7) Chuck the carbs

Our muscles are habitual of storing a kind of carbohydrate known as glycogen. This stored carbohydrate is only consumed when our body does some extra exercise. When we get rid of carbs, we can actually access this stored fuel and consume it off. For this avoid consuming carbs after lunch and substitute with low-carb food so that no new fat is stored.
8) Eat your fiber

Fiber is amazing when it comes to helping digestion. Organic fiber cereals actually prevent constipation and help you get that flat stomach quickly if consumed regularly in breakfast. Substitute high fiber oats with any traditional cereal and that flat belly isnt far. 

Food Plan

 Sticking to a meal plan besides working out is of equal importance. Follow this diet plan for 7 days and notice the difference on your own. Its suggested to start on a weekend so that you have time for yourself to be prepared. 

Day 1 

Breakfast: Omelette made with three egg whites and filled with 75 g chopped mixed peppers and a handful of spinach

Mid-morning snack: 100 g chicken with  red pepper, sliced

Lunch: One grilled chicken breast, mixed salad leaves, red peppers, green beans and  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g turkey breast with  cucumber, sliced

Dinner: 100 g grilled chicken breast with steamed broccoli

Day 2 

Breakfast: Baked chicken breast with a handful of stir-fried kale

Mid-morning snack: 100 g turkey breast and  green pepper, sliced

Lunch: Baked haddock fillet with mixed green salad, with  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g turkey breast with 75 g steamed broccoli

Dinner: One salmon steak with chopped dill and steamed green beans

Day 3 

Breakfast: 100 g smoked salmon, plus spinach

Mid-morning snack: 100 g chicken breast with  yellow pepper, sliced

Lunch: One grilled chicken breast with garden salad and  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g turkey slices with  avocado

Dinner: One grilled lamb steak (or two cutlets); steamed broccoli and spinach

Day 4 

Breakfast: Scrambled eggs (one whole, two whites), tomatoes, green beans

Mid-morning snack: 100 g turkey slices with  cucumber, sliced

Lunch: Baked cod fillet with salad, tomato, spinach and  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g chicken breast with  grilled courgette

Dinner: 100 g chicken breast stir-fry made with  tsp oil and green veg

Day 5 

Breakfast: 200 g turkey breast with  avocado and  cucumber, sliced

Mid-morning snack: Two hard-boiled eggs with  red pepper, sliced

Lunch: 150 g grilled prawns with a green salad and tomatoes,  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g turkey breast with five almonds

Dinner: 100 g chicken breast with steamed broccoli

Day 6 

Breakfast: One grilled haddock fillet with roasted peppers and courgettes

Mid-morning snack: 100 g chicken with one tomato, sliced

Lunch: 150 g turkey with green salad, steamed broccoli and  tbsp olive oil

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g chicken with five pecan nuts

Dinner: 150 g-200 g steak served with steamed green beans and broccoli

Day 7 

Breakfast: Three-egg-white omelette, grilled tomatoes and steamed spinach
Recommended By Colombia
Mid-morning snack: 100 g turkey with five Brazil nuts

Lunch: 150 g chicken breast with steamed asparagus and green salad

Mid-afternoon snack: 100 g turkey with  cucumber, sliced

Dinner: Grilled, skinless duck breast with steamed oriental greens or broccoli
where to get turkey and all..when you are writing in Indian context then plz do the justice..not simply copy and paste from some where with little modificationAjay Parihar

