Sex, once a taboo, seems to be the most-discussed topic in India today. The Supreme Court struck down Section 497 of the IPC, an adultery law dating to the British era, terming it unconstitutional yesterday. Last month, the apex court gave a landmark judgement and decriminalised homosexuality between consenting adults by scrapping the controversial Section 377.

It seems, billions of people who have been forced to believe sex outside marriage as a sin or having extramarital affair as morally wrong, are now asked to change their perception. It was not easy for us to take sex as a taboo, and it would perhaps be not easy to accept the change the judiciary has ordered.

Today, we are rejoicing the courts verdict that declared adultery is no longer a crime, attracting up to 5 years of jail term, but it can be a ground for divorce. The court has struck down a 150-year-old regressive colonial-law that subjected a woman to be treated as male property. Earlier, if a man had sex with a woman without her husbands permission, he was a criminal. If we are to believe the same law, the same man would go scot-free if he had sex with a woman with her husbands permission. Which means, the woman was simply her husbands property and he had the right to treat her as he pleased.

We agree, its a grave act of discrimination. Although its difficult to get an idea of how many adulterous crimes have been reported but according to legal experts, husbands often misused the adultery law during matrimonial disputes when they have to pay maintenance to their wife.

However, adultery is often defined as extramarital sex which is objectionable on social, religious and moral grounds. If we are to believe the moral police, adultery, even if permissible by the law now, is wrong on all grounds.
Recommended By Colombia
“Adultery is wrong. Whether its the wife or the husband, both should be treated equally when they take part in adulterous activities. Its good that the law, which subjected women to be treated like property, is now abolished. But does it mean both men and women are allowed to have extramarital sex. Is it, morally right?” said Anju Sharma, a homemaker, is concerned that the law on adultery should have made extramarital sex punishable for both the gender.

Like Anju, many would question whats there to rejoice about the abolition of the adultery law? Mere adultery cant be a criminal offence. It is a matter of privacy. Husband is not the master of wife. Women should be treated with equality along with men, Chief Justice Dipak Misra said. Any discrimination shall invite the wrath of the Constitution, the Chief Justice said, adding that a woman cannot be asked to think about the way society desires her to do.

Justice Rohinton F. Nariman, reading out his judgement, said: Women cant be treated as cattle.

We are happy that women would not be treated as cattle. We are also happy that there would not be any gender discrimination now. But should we be happy that we are free to indulge in extramarital sex now? Now, thats a difficult question to answer. 

