Yoga can play an important role in treating obesity. Yoga techniques affect the internal organs, endocrine glands, brain, mind and other factors concerning the body mind complex. Read on to know more... 

 Today millions of people of all age groups across the globe are facing this health hazard of obesity. Obesity makes life lazy and sedentary. Body becomes weak and it decreases the possibilities of longer life span. Common ailment, bones of buttocks, knees and spinal column becomes brittle. It may have an adverse effect on health, leading to many health problems such as cardiovascular disease, diabetes, sleep apnea, certain types of cancer and osteoarthritis. 

Overweight people have an increased risk of high blood pressure, heart disease, and other illnesses. Losing weight reduces the risk. However, losing weight is more easily said than done. This is surely a universal truth. The flab seems to stick on by default and as and when you try to get rid of the same, you simple seem to be driving uphill without much support. Thus the repeated efforts leave all your enthusiasm futile and you are exasperated and simply discouraged. This is where ancient holistic fitness therapies of yoga and pranayama come for aid.

 People with BMI in the range between 25 and 30 are considered overweight while those with BMI above 30 are considered obese. Obesity is mainly due to intake of excessive food energy and sedentary life style. It can also be hereditary. However, in some cases it is caused by genes, endocrine disorders, some medication or psychiatric illness. Nowadays stress also plays a vital role in causing obesity. Psychological disturbances propel a person to seek comfort in food -such a person may consume excess food. Children suffering from such disturbances, tend to become obese.

 One of the most challenging aspects of combating obesity is incorporating physical activity into the lifestyles of individuals who struggle with limited mobility as a result of their increased weight. In this circumstances yoga therapy can play a vital role in shedding excessive fat.

Why Yoga Therapy?

 Yoga is absolutely a gift to humanity from our ancestors. In yoga therapy, asanas are not practiced for the sake of burning extra calories, but to develop body awareness, to understand the language of body, the way it works, and what suits it best. Even though the aim of yoga is not just for weight loss, this is bound to happen as an outcome of our increased self-awareness. However, one must remember 3 Ds i.e. Discipline, Determination and Dedication in reducing weight naturally and allow his or her awareness to develop in a positive and constructive manner.

Asanas for losing weight quickly and easily

 There are many yoga postures or asanas that can help with weight reduction. Suitably modified poses can be performed from a sitting or prone position as yoga is easily adaptable to fit a person with limited mobility. Pawanmuktasana, Ardha Matsyendrasana, Gomukasana, Vajrasana, Paschimottanasana, Trikonasana, Pada Hastasana, Anantasana, Yoga Mudrasana, etc. are few to name. In fact, most yogic postures will help to bring the body to perfect shape and to reduce unwanted fat around the body.

 postures is one of the most favourite ways of burning calories if done briskly. It is a series of 12 postures performed in sequence. It is a sure way to make the body flexible and reduce weight.

: Many people may not be obese, but still suffer from fat around the belly. This can be reduced by doing asanas like Mayurasana. If one finds Mayurasana difficult to perform, then do Hansasana. Both postures help to put pressure against the abdomen and relieve belly fat.

Also known as Vishnus couch pose, this yoga asana helps in melting extra stomach fat and firms the abdominal muscles. It also helps in improving blood circulation and digestion. If you experience any discomfort or stiffness in the neck or hip area, it is advised to consult an expert before performing Anantasana.

 is also referred as 
. This asana burns unwanted stomach fat as it stretches abdominal muscles. 

 is all about stretching your lower body. It helps in burning extra fat on thighs, hips and lower abdominal area.

burns the accumulated fat in the lower part of the body. It stretches thighs, hip muscles and 

 groin
. This asana also tones the inner and outer thigh area and improves overall flexibility.
Recommended By Colombia

Pranayama to stimulate the metabolism

The Happiness Project Grinches withstanding, Gretchen Rubins feel-good goal applies to everyone. The author of the bestselling book, The Happiness Project, Rubin made it to our list of the mos... Read MoreThe Happiness Project Grinches withstanding, Gretchen Rubins feel-good goal applies to everyone. The author of the bestselling book, The Happiness Project, Rubin made it to our list of the most influential people in health and fitness. She posts daily with practical advice on topics like clearing clutter, achieving ambitions, and finding love. This years challenge is (take a wild guess) to make 2012 a happier year its harder than it looks, so start reading The pranayama practices stimulate the metabolism which helps to burn excessive fat in the body. These include: Bhastrika, Kapalbhati and Suryabheda, which are performed along with balancing practices like Nadi Shodhan and Ujjayi. Sheetali and Sheetkari are relaxing, cooling practices which influence different hypothalamic centers having control over thirst and the feeling of satisfaction with healthy quantities and qualities of food. 

(Image Courtesy: Shutterstock and Thinkstock)

