Memes are the new way to emote. We tag our friends on social media all day, every day. So much so that the day you do not tag them in a meme, they feel that you are upset with them or youre not talking to them While we all know how the meme game works, here are some kinds of memes which you can send your friends to wish them a happy friendship day

1.Cartoon kind: Cartoons are our ultra favourites when it comes to memes. This is because we have special memories with cartoons like Tom  Jerry, Calvin  Hobbes, Winnie the pooh, Archies, Looney Tunes and many more. Every 90 s, 80 s, 70 s, even 60 s kid has special memories with cartoons and a meme based on this will only bring back memories of your friendship and childhood 

2.Animal memes: This is our favourite kind. There is a variety of cats, dogs, elephants, giraffes, snakes, rabbits and an infinite number of animals we have not heard about memes available on the net. The most relatable ones are however the cats and dogs ones because they are often the most domesticated animals. If your friend is an animal lover, this is the perfect kind of meme to send them. 

3.TV series memes: Game of thrones, Friends, That 70 s show, How I Met Your Mother, Seinfeld, Sex And The City, Suits, The Big Bang Theory are some shows which are favourites amongst many of us and their memes never fail to put a smile on our face. Your social media is usually filled with these and you can pick these and send to your friends with a short message. 

4.Movie memes: From Sholay to The Hangover, our favourite movies are often part of these memes. Whether it is Anjali from Kuch Kuch Hota Hai trying to friend zone boys or The Rocks famous driving scene from Race To Witch Mountain, there is unlimited variety of movie memes you can send to your friends. You can make a meme based on their favourite movie and send it to them. Or you can print this meme on a tshirt or mug and gift to them

5.Animated memes: Animated memes are the newest to enter the meme bandwagon. These also include animated characters like Shrek  Fiona from the Shrek series or Baloo from The Jungle Book, using animated memes are another innovative way of wishing your friend. Animated characters are pretty dear to our generation and adding them to your friendship day memes will only be more special. 

6.Funny video memes: We have all seen funny animal videos, infant talking to mom videos, famous sports match goof ups. These have increasingly become part of the meme gang and can be used to bring not only a smile but rather laughter to your friends face. These funny videos can also be screenshot and made into a meme. 

7.Customized memes: Now, many meme-generating applications have become popular. You can use your group photos to make these memes and send to your friends. You can tag them on social media and use these memes as well. If you want to use a popular photo to convey your friendship day wishes, you can make your own quote and upload that as well. 

8.Grumpy cat memes: Grumpy cat has been a favourite for the longest time and the perfect choice for your grumpy introvert friends who took time to open to you A fun way to wish your friend on this special day with a grumpy cat meme. There are millions available on the net and you can one of these on your own as well. 

9.Famous personality memes: As Indians, we love our Shahrukh Khan, Salman Khan, Amir Khan memes more than anything else. Not only are they popular amongst the 90 s kid but also the generations that have come before and after it. You can make these on your own or take from the net. What better way to wish your friend than sending him or her their favourite movie stars meme

10.Advertisement memes: This category is relatively new but has been growing popularity over time. Many famous advertisements like Coalgates Kya aapke toothpaste mein namak hai to Patanjalis toothpaste, memes have been made on all of them. If you know anyone ad that cracked up your friend recently, heres your clue to their friendship day meme-gift. 

Whether we have a small group of friends or an expanded one, each of our friendship brings something new to our lives. Friends inspire us to see the world in a totally different way and give us a shoulder to lean on. Each friendship makes us who we are.

So, go ahead and share these friendship quotes with your sister from another mister or brother from another mother.

“A good friend is like a four-leaf clover, hard to find and lucky to have.”

“A friend is one who knows you as you are, understands where you have been, accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow.”

“True friends are like diamonds - bright, beautiful, valuable, and always in style.”

“Some people go to priests. Others to poetry. I to my friends.”

“A friend is someone who gives you total freedom to be yourself - and specially to feel, or not feel. Whatever you happen to be feeling at any moment is fine with them. Thats what real love amounts to - letting a person be what he really is.”

“A single candle can illuminate an entire room. A true friend lights up an entire life.”

“A friend is someone who knows the song in your heart, and can sing it back to you when you have forgotten the words.”

“A friend is one who believes in you when you have ceased to believe in yourself.”

“Friendship is unnecessary, like philosophy, like art... It has no survival value; rather is one of those things that give value to survival.”

“Friendship is like a perennial river which flows forever. It may change its path but will never ever dry up.”

“You can always tell a real friend when youve made a fool of yourself he doesnt feel youve done a permanent job”

“One of the most beautiful qualities of true friendship is to understand and to be understood.”

“I keep my friends as misers keep their treasure, because, of all the things granted to us by wisdom, none is greater or better than friendship.”

“It is the privilege of friendship to talk nonsense, and have her nonsense respected.”

“Friendship is like a tree... it is not measured on how tall it could be, but is on how deep the roots have grown”

“Each friend represents the world in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive and it is only by this meeting that a new world is born.”

“The relation between one heart and another heart is called love, but the relation between heart and heartbeat is called friendship.” 

“A friend is one who believes in you when you have ceased to believe in yourself.”

“A true friend is someone who reaches for your hand and touches your heart.”

“A ring is round and has no end....and thats how long Ill be your friend.”

“Crazy days and screwed up nights, tons of crushes and stupid fights, secrets we will take to the grave, pictures we will forever save. through thick and thin, always true. Friends forever, me and you”

“A friend is someone who knows the song in your heart and can sing it back to you when you have forgotten the words. 

“Friends do not make life easier but they provide the strength and support that helps us get through tough times, to make a friend is an event but to keep one is a process.”

“Friendship isnt how you forget but how you forgive, not how you listen but how you understand, not what you see but how you feel, and not how you let go but how you hold on.”

“Friendship that flows from the heart cannot be frozen by adversity, as the water that flows from the spring cannot congeal in winter.”

“Friendship is a strong and habitual inclination in two persons to promote the good and happiness of one another.”

“Remember, the greatest gift is not found in a store nor under a tree, but in the hearts of true friends.”

Recommended By Colombia
If you want to find out who is your true friend, screw up or go through a challenging time.... then see who sticks around. 

“Friend is one, who (f)inds you in a (r)ush of people, (i)nspires you to do something in life, catches your (e)motions and (n)ever leaves you till (d)eath.”

A friend is someone who makes it easy to believe in yourself. 

