Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the Father of our Nation, was born on October 2, 1869. Now, though hes long since left this world, his birth anniversary is celebrated and is called Gandhi Jayanti. Jayanti means anniversary. 

Mohandas Gandhi was born in pre-independent when the British rule had become ruthless and cunning, putting millions of Indians through immense pain. Mohandas studied law in England and practised it in South Africa for several years where he perfected his philosophy of satyagraha (truth) and ahimsa (non-violence). When he returned to India, he soon became active in Indias ongoing freedom struggle. He did not like that the great nation of India was a colony, ruled by the British, but he did not want a violent war to decide the outcome of the nation. Gandhi deeply believed in non-violence and he led the independence struggle with peaceful protests which were well thought out and incredibly effective. His firm implementation of his beliefs on such a massive political scale and its effectiveness awed the world. Its simple to say one is non-violent personally, but to apply such a thought to create major change at such a large level was unheard of before. Hence, he was given the title of Mahatma. Mahatma means great soul. 
Recommended By Colombia

Gandhi was one of the biggest contributors to Indias freedom movement and his methods for achieving it shaped the country greatly. He is even called the Father of our Nation. That is why his legacy is honoured, not only in India, but all over the world. Gandhi Jayanti is one of the most important national holidays in India and the United Nations has announced that October 2 is to be the International Day of Non-Violence.

People offer prayer tributes throughout India and many schools and colleges hold programs to celebrate his legacy. A way to celebrate it could just be to honour the great man and his thoughts. Reading a book, studying and knowing about the workings of the world was one of the things Gandhi loved doing. One could do that to honour him. Also, the greatest tribute you could give our great leader is to practise non-violence and to love every human, irrespective of caste and creed. It is important to learn about Gandhi by reading the books he wrote and from some good documentaries. After all, what we learn in school is just a summary and its important to take a day to reflect on the life and lessons of one so great who shaped the destiny of a nation and inspired the whole world. In a century which had two of the worst wars the world had ever seen, Gandhi preached peace and with his words and actions, moved millions across the world. 

Gandhi Jayanti: How the Mahatma became vegetarian for life 01:45

